[Timeline] Introduce new component (#21331)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/components/timeline/timeline.md

---
title: Timeline React component
components: Timeline, TimelineItem, TimelineItemTail, TimelineItemContent
---

# Timeline

> <p class="description">The timeline displays visually a list of events in chronological order.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="description">The timeline displays a list of events in chronological order.</p>
```

**Note:** This component is not documented in the [Material Design guidelines](https://material.io/), but Material-UI supports it.

## Simple timeline

Simeple timeline showing list of events.

{{"demo": "pages/components/timeline/SimpleTimeline.js"}}

> ## Alternate timeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Alternating timeline
```

> Alternate timeline can show the events on alternating side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The timeline can display the events on alternating sides.
```

---
title: Timeline React component
components: Timeline, TimelineItem, TimelineSeparator, TimelineDot, TimelineConnector, TimelineContent, TimelineOppositeContent
---

# Timeline

<p class="description">The timeline displays a list of events in chronological order.</p>

**Note:** This component is not documented in the [Material Design guidelines](https://material.io/), but Material-UI supports it.

## Simple timeline

> Simeple timeline showing list of events.

Reviewer 2: Sorry on phone - simple. But aren’t we moving away from describing things as simple?

Author: Hmm, how do we then describe the "default" component, without any props?

Reviewer 3: Let's fix the typo first
```suggestion
Simple timeline showing list of events.
```

We should move away from "simple" anyway:

> What might be simple for you might not be simple for others. Try eliminating this word from the sentence because usually the same meaning can be conveyed without it.

-- https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#letter-s

But this is probably better discussed in a dedicated PR.

Reviewer 4: Agree, we started using basic https://material-ui.com/components/pagination/#basic-pagination.

Reviewer 4: cc @mbrookes https://developers.google.com/style/word-list looks like a great guideline, maybe we should put something like this together.

Reviewer: Yep, I've been objecting to "simple" for quite a while now, so Pagination used "basic" instead to finally start the transition. Happy to see other similar changes applied if they make sense.

{{"demo": "pages/components/timeline/SimpleTimeline.js"}}

## Right aligned timeline

> Right aligned timeline can show the timeline on the right side of the events.

Reviewer 2: Beginning with “right aligned timeline“ seems redundant when it goes on to describe a right aligned timeline?

Author: Good point :D

Author: I've changed a bit the description, please check

> {{"demo": "pages/components/timeline/RightAlinedTimeline.js"}}

Reviewer 2: Demo name is misspelt.

## Alternating timeline

The timeline can display the events on alternating sides.

{{"demo": "pages/components/timeline/AlternateTimeline.js"}}

## Color

The `TimelineDot` can appear in different colors.

{{"demo": "pages/components/timeline/ColorsTimeline.js"}}

## Outlined

{{"demo": "pages/components/timeline/OutlinedTimeline.js"}}

## Opposite content

> The timeline can contain an element opposite of the content.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, after some thought was is your opinion on changing this to something like:

```suggestion
The timeline can display content on opposite sides.
```

cc @mbrookes

> Timeline can contain an element opposite of the content.

Reviewer 2: ”The timeline” but I need to think more about this sentence.

{{"demo": "pages/components/timeline/OppositeContentTimeline.js"}}

> ## Customized timeline icons in timeline

Reviewer 2: ”Customized timeline icons” ?

Author: Will rename this to `Customized Timeline` as these is more in the example than just customizing icons. What do you think?

Here is an example of customizing the component. You can learn more about this in the
[overrides documentation page](/customization/components/).

> {{"demo": "pages/components/timeline/CustomizedTimeline.js"}}

Reviewer 4: I'm leaving a not for later, so far, in the `## Customized X` headers of the documentation, we have always tried to show an example that significantly diverges from Material Design. It could potentiation make sense to follow suit here. but IMHO, it's already good enough right now to be merged like this :)
